so we are now in Bangkok Airport we were
just enjoying life for a little over two
weeks main reason being that ISIL had
another court date for the case with
durianrider and it was my first time
coming to Chiang Mai and to me I don't
think this has as much significance as
it does tell other vegans people who
we're yeah into the raw fruit diet I
think it probably wouldn't mean more to
them to go to Chiang Mai where it seems
like the vegan Mecca like the closest
thing that vegans have sOooo Mecca so
but yeah you know I had I had heard your
video with Jake Eames talking about
Chiang Mai and it didn't give me that
great of an impression and yeah it's
true like it's not a good place to walk
around I don't it is strange to me that
it is that it's obviously such a popular
tourist destination but you know we
spent two weeks there and it was
comfortable we got to go to a lot of
vegan restaurants yeah I think this this
is the place the only place I've been to
with so many vegan restaurants so yeah
that is was impressive to me I think
it's kind of funny like just even
hearing you say that like vegan Mecca
the thing is like I feel like you're
starting to be a Mac person to be a
destination just because something to do
like I said you repeatedly when I was
there it's like I feel like this is like
you know it's like everyone's behaving
as if they're here to see the pyramids
but there are no pyramids yeah
everyone's behaving as if there's some
attraction here
yeah ality is like Chiang Mai is just a
less dysfunctional city than the big
cities of Vietnam Indonesia Malaysia
like most of all Myanmar Thailand Laos
you know like it's a less dysfunctional
city even than Bangkok right you know
you ain't you only attraction right you
mentioned one time we were walking
around that like you know it's safer for
women to walk around here than in
Malaysia you know like it's a safer more
like you know single women you can
travel here in Chiang Mai Tyler anywhere
inside I'm wearing or wearing revealing
clothes
yeah yeah there's a lot of elements to
that yeah if you want to wear a burka so
yeah I was just saying to you know well
I just wished no a lot of female Travis
you must've had friends didn't who did
India who did the hippy trial or thing
in India or no but that little probably
people from my high school that's right
I'm not really in contact with it I
think you recently though one of my
friends went to Cambodia Facebook
friends one of one of the most common
complaints as women go to India
expecting to have this kind of spiritual
experience yeah they're a lot of
experience and they get sexual
harassment really everywhere they go
yeah yeah so I just mentioned that's a
bit of a mass phenomenon and know
walking around Chiang Mai wouldn't be a
problem today and walk more into a mine
you're in your bikini
that would put someone pretty much do
bikinis or yoga yoga outfits that are
about as we're doing this with you yeah
right that's one factor but it's weird
for Chiang Mai to fundamentally be a
good place to do nothing yes yeah we got
a lot of reading done let's do it right
yeah you got work done for finishing up
grading exams and whatnot but yeah I
guess the main attraction that we could
have done it is seeing the elephants
going to an elephant sanctuary but
really I didn't want to do that I just
didn't want to do that I think mmm
I think people generally do that just so
they can take photos and say that they
did it I think a lot of people do things
for FOMO like fear of missing out fear
of missing out on something they so
they're like oh I'll regret it later
like and you know I kind of had these
thoughts when I was walking around and
Chiang Mai with you I was like oh well
maybe we should go to the zoo maybe we
should go I was like really is this
gonna be life-changing this really like
mean going to rub my hand on an
elephant's trunk yeah is that gonna
change my life I've never heard you use
that abbreviation with a fear of fear of
missing out oh yeah in a sense that's
like the exact opposite of my approach
my approach the always is to say like
make sure you've done enough reading
about sigh so you know what you're
missing hmm yeah which is nobody I know
like I said you about learning Chinese
we make sure you know enough with the
language you know
you're missing yeah right but to me uh
you know I was just telling you before
we hit record that I know that you
you've lived in Chiang Mai and various
times in your life so like to me it was
kind of special to be in Thailand for an
extended period of time with you and see
you you know even though you haven't
spoken Thai really in years like you
know you were able to communicate and
make people laugh and you know it just
shows how like worldly you are obviously
you know like I really admire you you
know for that you know that you're that
you're able to like that you go to a
country and like you make an effort to
learn languages it's obvious that you
when you were here you did really make
an effort I can get up my language cards
that show him on screen yeah I mean you
know for me it's it's a little bit
tragic to reflect in that mountain lost
potential because now most these places
kind of mean nothing to me but yeah like
this is this is my handwriting and
lotion and this is a huge stack of cards
I wrote out so just it was fully ten
years I didn't use this language at all
and then I was amazed myself that my
handwriting was this good sitting down
and starting to been you know
yeah and just last night like you were
going through some of your things trying
to throw out paperwork where you showed
me like you know some of some of your
handwriting from when you were learning
pally and different scripts of family
and stuff like you know it and you know
you I got to see you like excuse me uh
like throw out the Law Dictionary that
you've had like three separate times and
you know you're right yeah so yeah like
I know this is a special place for you
and even though it doesn't have much
like significance to me as it does you
know at one point in your life is like I
totally think it's I totally go what
you're saying like its meaning for you
to see like an echo of that side of my
life I yeah and be a scholar of Buddhism
I used to be a scholar pally I still
know all this stuff there was language
as history and politics but you know we
saw that documentary together it was
just a documentary about like factory
owners in China basically economics in
China but one of the factory owners they
interviewed that grave
well I think I was the Great Wolf as he
called himself yeah I don't know if
anyone else calls it that right he was a
German guy
with gray hair or living in China and he
really said like part of why he will
always feel like a foreigner in China is
that the people there can never give him
the respect he's seeking it was an
interesting comment remember he said
that he said like it's not just about
having a roof over your head or having
enough to eat it's also about this kind
of ecology of respecting others and them
respecting you yeah right and like that
really that really strikes home with me
in Thailand
you know I mean like Thailand it's one
of those things I mean of course I can
say good and bad for it but like you
know it's just a country where I don't
even want to what I was studying was
their history and their culture and
their politics no one is gonna
understand me that's one of the
strangest things if you're like oh yeah
like my current research project is like
I'm studying the history of slavery like
you're in Chiang Mai people just look at
you like why what you mean like where
they don't even see anything you know
worthwhile about your owns about your
scholarly interests when you're scholars
is their history and their language and
their culture yeah that's nothing like
you know so I mean I knew a guy who
lived everywhere in the world friend
friend of mine keyboards in hotels so he
had really lived in a very long list of
places and I told him this this line my
father made up of a tile and my father
just made up this witticism about
Thailand he said the Thais the nicest
people money can buy you know and its
bit of a course but I remember this
friend of mine libero he said wow you
know he nailed it that's really but
perfect they at least work you know
tells in Thailand you know that was his
that was his experience and you know a
line I made up back when I was living in
Laos but back and forth from Thailand
all the time I said I would say to other
foreigners I'd say people here are
friendly but they're not your friends
you know there's a difference you know I
mean and being in a place like Thailand
for me with my intellectual interests
and political interest and so on like
you know I feel like there's no way to
ever get past the kind of facade a very
shallow you know distant friendships
which is what you know what makes your
life work day to day here the woman we
bought mango and sticky rice from yeah
we bought that's a that's a standard
mango what's a way of serving mango
rice and yeah coconut fat you know yeah
you know people are nice to you
people are friendly towards you but
especially me because I spoke the
language I could still speak the
language at a certain level where I get
quite a lot of I can see I can see
people like like pulling up when they
saw that you could actually speak tired
that's right I mean normally of course
you couldn't understand what I said but
you could tell immediately there and
even even prices for things and if
things but you suddenly became cheaper
because I could speak Thai yeah yeah but
um you know there's really kind of
nothing past that you know is this point
the point diminishing returns is is
right there and you know it's so I mean
that's for somebody like me I don't
drink alcohol
hmm you know I don't I don't participate
in a lot of the other things that
culture has to offer I don't sleep with
prostitutes you know said it's and
that's for most white men those the ways
into the culture or like alcohol drugs
prostitutes partying and for me the
doors closed on that and I'm you know
I've spent a lot of time going to
archives and libraries and go in there
alone and leave it alone you know
yes aircraft celebrities I made friends
with other Europeans you know it's yeah
meet French and German intellectuals who
were also there studying slavery in
history over anyway so emissions we
actually this stuff that case you guys
think we've talked about this 10 times
there's not like we really haven't but
we didn't talk about this yeah well we
were in shame I know that's that's cool
for me to hear I mean and the other
thing for me is obviously like my last
several major girlfriends in a sense or
this is going back over ten years right
like you my ex-wife and then like the
two that were before that it's true that
all of them also kind of had this
experience with me where one way or
another they kind of realized that
there's this other side of my life they
they haven't seen yeah well you know I'm
comfortable with the fact that it's over
now but yeah so yeah it's all we know
except except we had a great example of
it not being over remember we went to we
went to the vegan activist Meetup
yeah remember and this guy started
talking about the history of history and
politics of Buddhism and what is in
relation to to veganism and then I got
to say look I'm sorry but I'm actually
actually I'm a poly scholar actually so
once in a long while it comes out but
otherwise it's it's just an echo of the
past
yeah I guess it was it was funny too
because you know the less you said that
the last time or less one of the last
times that you were in Chiang Mai and
you were recognized by vehicle but it
was actually nonetheless like thirty
minutes that we were in Chiang Mai
that's right did anyway notice or you
know recognize you yeah I got recognized
I got recognized on the street yeah last
day in Chiang Mai just we were going to
the airport that's right but in the past
what I've come to chain my people did
recognize me and in the past since so
I've been recognized because of you know
my evolved with veganism but also the I
used to get recognized just as a scholar
of Buddhism sure yeah
just and my work on guess you'd say
contemporary politics because I wrote a
couple articles that were you know raise
some either was this kind of sex scandal
about corruption and the yeah I read
that yeah rather cuz that also people
knew people knew there was this bald guy
yeah yeah that wasn't that wasn't on
YouTube that was just text but people
would meet me in those places those
kinds of archives and political places
maybe like oh well yeah but now with now
one people organizing from YouTube they
know how to pronounce my name that's the
beach it's no pretty joy to put outside
yeah yeah but I think you know I can
safely say that I'd be happy if we never
went back to you right right it's just
how you know what though I really don't
want to walk around like surrounded by
so much I don't know it's not even like
a nice place to walk around on no
there's just so much traffic and it's to
think about it from from Thai people's
perspective to look the other thing
that's kind of weird and pointless about
am i okay why do white people like it
there because they can show up and just
speak English right yeah there's a lot
of signage and English as all the
advertising there's a lot of menus in
English right like but for Thai people
that City now like 50 percent of the
city the city is like conducted in
English you know what I mean and maybe
like 20-30 percent is in Chinese you
know like downtown yeah there's a lot of
Chinese signage but that's kind of way
but I mean like Las Vegas at some point
tourism has taken over such a big
percentage of a town or a place that
there isn't anything unique about that
place going to see like what
what in Chiangmai is really chiang mai
and what is just there for foreign
tourists the majority of the vegan
restaurants who went to yeah are just
for I know white people
yeah and we're speaking Westerners and
that's obvious from the menu and the
sign and everything else right
I did take you to a couple of like
authentic local places that are yeah
really by Thai people for table that
also exists but that the the restaurants
at the least of the problem like when
the whole city becomes in that sense
just something that exists for yeah I
mean when we were searching for gifts I
wasn't looking for anything that was
authentically Chiang Mai it was just
really clinically time well in some of
it was made for foreigners yeah that's
right right
anyway but I mean you get into a
situation where the representation of a
place for foreign consumption becomes
more and more detached in the reality of
what that place is and I don't know I
may be the real Chiang Mai is still out
there in the suburb somewhere because
remember we once gotten a taxi that kind
of took us in the wrong direction I was
pointing out to you look over here in
this neighborhood I know there were
actually poor people and the you know
that looked poor and then we're skinny
and their clothes were dirty and you
know there was kind of like oh look you
don't see this you know downtown we
don't see this in our neighborhood it's
a might that's another another side to
this so you know there's something you
can reach out and touch yeah yeah it was
a it was a it was a difference from
patio and jaunt in the other part sure
it's true Thailand that I have seen in
Bangkok sure so I got to see yeah it
does seem like a wealthy City compared
to that's right obviously Bangkok is
full of well to people's minds Yahtzee
is going to court right first time in
court ever so I got to go to court for
the first time in Thailand the court is
not something phony for tourists let me
tell ya but yeah I had a great vacation
with you oh thanks love oh that's great
okay well Chiang Mai Thailand I mean you
know
I remember there was a time when people
said about currency that the value of
the euro was always being driven up just
cuz it was less dysfunctional than the
surrounding currencies I feel like in a
lot of ways Thailand has kind of gotten
a free ride because it's just a country
that's less dysfunctional then and less
scary then neighboring countries but
when you stop and examine you know
what's this worth in itself yeah
why would Chiang Mai be the vegan Mecca
rather than Jamaica I really mean that
sincerely you can go on vacation rather
than you know you can make a list you
know but the the advantage they had and
being relatively cheap or low-cost
that's gonna erode away and unless you
have a specialized research interest in
something that brings you to Chiang Mai
I can't recommend anyone go there for
vacation you know yeah all right Chiang
Mai a nice place to do nothing